Tangy Coconut Crocodile

High

# If the L1 message is skipped then the tokens will be lost for users bridging via L1ReverseCustomGateway

### Summary

When users bridge L2 tokens by transferring them to the `ReverseCustomGateway` contract, the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` contract **mints** the corresponding tokens to the user's address on L1. Conversely, when users bridge tokens from L1 using the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` contract, the tokens are burned from the user's address on L1 and are transferred to the user's address in L2.

If the L1 bridge message fails or is skipped, the message must be dropped, and `onDropMessage` will be called in `L1ReverseCustomGateway`. Since the user's tokens are burned on L1 in this context, the expected behavior is that the tokens should be minted back to the user. However, the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` instead attempts to **transfer** the tokens back to the user, which is problematic because the tokens no longer exist, having already been burned. This results in a failed operation, as there are no tokens to transfer back to the user.

### Root Cause

In `L1ReverseCustomGateway` contract, when tokens are bridged from L1 to L2 the tokens are burnt from the user in L1
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ReverseCustomGateway.sol#L133)

If the message is skipped then it has to be dropped from the `L1CrossDomainMessenger` which will execute the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` contracts `onDropMessage` callback to refund the user the attempted bridged funds
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L289)

Since the tokens are burnt from the user in L1, inside the `onDropMessage`, tokens should be minted back to user. However, `L1ReverseCustomGateway` inherits the `L1ERC20Gateway` which has the following implementation:
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC20Gateway.sol#L87)
as we can see, the tokens are attempted to be transferred from the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` back to users address on L1. However, user didn't transfer any tokens to L1 like usual ERC20Gateways but the tokens are burnt from the user so there aren't any token balances in the `L1ReverseCustomGateway` hence, the transfer will always fail!

### Internal pre-conditions

1. User bridges tokens using `L1ReverseCustomGateway`
2. L1 message is skipped and needs to be dropped
3. When the message is attempted to be dropped it will revert since there are no balance in `L1ReverseCustomGateway` contract

### External pre-conditions

None needed

### Attack Path

None needed, the vulnerability can happen in natural flow of the system

### Impact

User will lose all the funds that tried to bridge from L1 -> L2. 

### PoC

None needed

### Mitigation

override the `onDropMessage` in L1ReverseCustomGateway contract, instead of transferring the funds mint them back to user.