Swift Burgundy Iguana

Medium

# unpause does not update finalizeTimestamp

### Summary

`unpause` does not update `finalizeTimestamp`, making it possible for a pause to skip the proof window, causing a batch that could have been challenged to no longer be challenged.

### Root Cause

The contract determines whether the batch can be challenged based on the `finalizeTimestamp`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L579-L581
```solidity
    function batchInsideChallengeWindow(uint256 batchIndex) public view returns (bool) {
        return batchDataStore[batchIndex].finalizeTimestamp > block.timestamp;
    }
``` 

The contract has a pause function, but it does not pause `block.timestamp`, and the `finalizeTimestamp` is not updated based on the pause duration when `unpause`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L454-L456
```solidity
        } else {
            _unpause();
        }
``` 

So this means that pause time will take up the time that batch can be challenged.

Assume that a batch is submitted at block.timestamp == 100, with a `finalizeTimestamp` of 150. The owner executed `pause` at bt == 110 and did not `unpause` until bt == 160. Originally, the time available for the challenger to challenge would have been 150-100=50, but in reality, it can only be 110-100=10, and after unpausing, it cannot be challenged again.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

`unpause` does not update `finalizeTimestamp`, making it possible for a pause to skip the proof window, causing a batch that could have been challenged to no longer be challenged.

The time that the batch can be challenged is reduced, which diminishes the security of the protocol's core.

The owner also has no way to update the submitted batch's `finalizeTimestamp` by other methods.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Record the timestamp at `pause`, and increase the `finalizeTimestamp` of all submitted but not finalized batches based on the difference between the current time and the recorded time at `unpause`.