Massive Pecan Raven

High

# Malicious challenger can significantly increase the finalization time in the Rollup.sol leading to DoS of all withdrawals

### Summary

A malicious challenger can significantly increase the finalization time of the submitted batches by repeatedly calling the `challengeState` function  on  valid batches.  Malicious challenger can then prove the batch via `proveState` and claim the challenge funds back. This would keep increasing the unfinalized batches `finalizeTimestamp` by 2 days each time `challengeState` is called. In single L1 block, malicious challenger can increase the finalization time to 20 days by only paying for the gas fees of 10 total `challengeState`  (and `proveState`) function calls  

### Root Cause

Anytime a new challenge is submitted via the `challengeState` function, the finalization time of all remaining committed and unfinalized batches are increased in order to provide enough time to challenge them afterwards. [This can be observed in the `challengeState` function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L383):

```Solidity        
function challengeState(uint64 batchIndex) external payable onlyChallenger nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {
  .. REDACTED FOR BREVITY...
  for (uint256 i = lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1; i <= lastCommittedBatchIndex; i++) {
            if (i != batchIndex) {
                batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp += proofWindow;
            }
        }
```

The `proofWindow` is an adjustable variable and  according to the [mainnet config](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KDQ8LkB53yw7f0m8a0LCTIdyiANjKyqC-sKUQEQGSf8/edit?gid=0#gid=0) provided by the MorphL2 team, it'll be 172800 seconds or 2 days in the mainnet but can be set up to 604800 seconds or 7 days. 

The problem is a malicious challenger can use this to increase the finalization time of all remaining unfinalized batches without losing any funds in the process. This means the attacker initially only needs 1 ETH (challenge deposit) to launch the attack. 

If any of the batch submitters tries to finalize the batches afterwards, their transaction will revert due to the following check in the `finalizeBatch` function:

```Solidity
 require(!batchInsideChallengeWindow(_batchIndex), "batch in challenge window");
```

In order for  `finalizeBatch` to successfully run, `batchInsideChallengeWindow` must return false. However due to increased finalization times, it'll return `false` if finalization attempt is in the challenge window:

```Solidity
     function batchInsideChallengeWindow(uint256 batchIndex) public view returns (bool) {
        return batchDataStore[batchIndex].finalizeTimestamp > block.timestamp;
    }
```



### Internal pre-conditions

- The challenger must be whitelisted by the admins.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

The attack would occur like this:

1. Challenger calls `challengeState` for any of the submitted unfinalized batches. ( Minus 1 ETH to Challenge Deposit)
2. Challenger calls `proveState` to prove the batch was correct and challenge deposit will be added to his/her `batchChallengeReward`.  
3. Challenger calls `claimReward` to get back the challenge deposit. (Gets back the 1 ETH)
4. Repeat the above steps for all remaining batches.

Each repeat would add 2 more days to the finalization time of the remaining batches.

### Impact

Finalization time of all the submitted unfinalized batches would be significantly increased. With just 10 attack transactions, attacker can add 20 days to the finalization time of each remaining batch. Given there are hundreds of submitted unfinalized batches in the queue, it could take months for people to withdraw their tokens.   

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

I think there are 2 solutions:
1. Make the attack more costly to the malicious challenger by burning some portion of the challenge deposit. If challenger deposits 1 ETH then in the case of a successful state prove, the prover should get the half of it and the other half is either burnt or sent to the protocol owners. 
2. Add an upper limit to the `finalizeTimestamp ` so it cannot get any larger after passed the threshold. 