Tangy Coconut Crocodile

High

# Finalizing the batch can slash the wrong sequencer

### Summary

Sequencers can submit as many batches as they want as long as they meet the checks in the `commitBatch` function. Every time a challenger challenges a batch, the finalization time for all batches prior to the challenged one is extended by the `proofWindow`. If a valid proof is provided, the `proveState` function can be called to end the challenge. However, the finalization time is not reduced after the challenge. If a challenger consecutively challenges and proves multiple batches, the earlier batches could end up with very long finalization times. In this scenario, a sequencer could withdraw from the system entirely, causing the slashing process to fail since the sequencer would no longer be active in the system.

### Root Cause

Every time a batch is challenged, the prior batches' `finalizeTimestamp` are [increased](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L381-L385) by the `proofWindow`.

If a challenger challenges and quickly proves multiple batches, some batches' `finalizeTimestamp` will grow significantly. This would allow any sequencer to withdraw from the staking contract entirely, preventing slashing. If the slashed sequencer cannot be found in the Sequencer contract, the slashing process will accidentally slash the wrong sequencer.

### Internal pre-conditions

There are "x" batches to be finalized from which one of them is wrong and should be proved wrong which is a completely natural flow in the system



### External pre-conditions

None needed

### Attack Path

1. The challenger initiates a challenge on the first "x" batches up to the batch containing the false submission, then immediately proves these batches valid. This increases the finalization time for the false batch due to the extension of multiple`proofWindow`.

2. The sequencer responsible for the false batch initiates the withdrawal process in the L1Staking contract. Normally, the withdrawal requires waiting for a specific number of blocks (e.g., `withdrawalLockBlocks`), but because the `proofWindow` has been excessively extended, the sequencer will be able to wait out the required blocks before the false batch can be challenged.

3. The sequencer claims its withdrawal, exiting the staking system completely. Once withdrawn, the sequencer is no longer subject to slashing, effectively avoiding penalties for submitting the false batch.

### Impact

If new sequencers join after the attack is executed, a wrong sequencer could be mistakenly slashed and removed from the staking contract. If no new sequencers join, then the funds from the staking contract could be sent to the Rollup contract, which would incorrectly distribute funds that belong to other sequencers' staking value.

### PoC
First, let's say there are 20 batches to be finalized, with the 20th batch being incorrect and needing to be challenged, and the sequencer that committed the batch should be slashed.

Visualization:
```js
lastFinalizedBatch ---- batch#1 ---- batch#2 ---- ...... batch#19 ---- batch#20 (wrong batch, should be challenged)
```

The challenger will first challenge batch #1. When batch #1 is challenged, the finalization time (`finalizeTimestamp`) for all subsequent batches (batch #2 to batch #20) will increase by the `proofWindow`, which by default is set to 2 days.  
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L381-L385)

If a batch is challenged, anyone can submit proof to defend the sequencer in any time, as long as the proof is ready.  
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L465-L493)

Now, assume the challenger starts challenging batches from batch #1 up to batch #19 and proves them immediately (even in a single transaction). This would increase the `finalizeTimestamp` of batch #20 by 19 * `proofWindow`, resulting in a significantly extended finalization time.

Since batch #20 is incorrect and should be challenged, the honest challenger will need challenge and wait for the extended `proofWindow` to expire before being able to prove and revert the batch. This is because if the batch is indeed wrong, then the proof will not be existed hence, the finalization time has to be passed.

When batch #20 is [successfully challenged](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L701-L707), the sequencer’s address is pulled from the batch's `signedSequencerBitmap`, and it is checked in the L1Staking.sol contract to be slashed.  
[Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L218)  
[Link for getStakerBitmap](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L406-L426)

As seen in `getStakerBitmap()`, the sequencer address is retrieved from the `stakerAddrs` storage mapping, which stores active stakers. A sequencer can remove themselves from this array by withdrawing their stake after a delay of `withdrawalLockBlocks` (default: 7 days). Under normal conditions, since the `proofWindow` is 2 days, a sequencer would still be within the system during the challenge period, allowing for successful slashing.

However, in the scenario described above, the `proofWindow` for batch #20 is extended far beyond the 7-day `withdrawalLockBlocks`. This allows the sequencer to exit the system before batch #20 is successfully challenged, preventing slashing and even causing the wrong sequencer to be slashed.

### Mitigation
When adding the `proofWindow`, the batches check whether the `finalizeTimestamp ` are already ahead of the time by the `proofWindow` and skip if they are:

```solidity
for (uint256 i = lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1; i <= lastCommittedBatchIndex; i++) {
    if (i != batchIndex) {
+       if (batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp < block.timestamp + proofWindow)
            batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp += proofWindow;
    }
}
```

This would at least ensure that the `finalizeTimestamp` doesn't become an excessively large number for any batch.