Rich Bubblegum Tardigrade

High

# Challengers can halt finalization of batches for weeks

## Summary
Challenger can halt finalization of batches for weeks 

## Vulnerability Detail
NB: The readMe does not talk about this vulnerability class anywhere .
In `Rollup.sol` batches will be commited by stakers once every 20 mins; the time it takes for a commited unchallenged batch to be able to be finalized is [1 day ~ 86400 seconds] from commitment `(finalizationPeriodSeconds)` and the time a challenged batch has before the challenger wins if the batch is not proven in that time frame is [2 days ~ 172800 seconds] `(proofWindow)` this is also the time added to all committed unfinalized batches to prevent an unfinalized batch from being finalized when a challenge is on because the contract does not support multiple challenges. All these values were provided in the readMe.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2-Pascal4me#q-please-discuss-any-design-choices-you-made [Q -19]

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2-Pascal4me#q-are-there-any-limitations-on-values-set-by-admins-or-other-roles-in-the-codebase-including-restrictions-on-array-lengths
The issue stems from two  fact that a batch that was challenged and proven to be right cannot be finalized  (provided the index is right) until the finalization time has reached  and that same proven batch's finalization time will be increased by 2 days when ever a new batch is challenged.

So for example batch 3 is created by 2:00 on Monday [Finalization time is 2:00 on Tuesday], by 3:00 it is challenged by 4:00 it is proven to be correct, batch 3 can't still be finalized until 2:00 on Tuesday even after being proven. Then by that same 4:00 on Monday, batch 4 is commited and is challenged immediately because batch 3 isn't in the finalized batch array extra 2 days is added to the finalized time [currently that will be 2:00 on Thursday] remember this is a proven batch; hence batch 3 a proven batch can't be finalized until 2:00 on thursday. If another batch (batch 5) is commited and challenged within this 3 day window, batch 3 cannot be finalized until 2:00 on Saturday. With this you should be able to understand the vulnerability.

So in a wilder case scenarios, there are 10 committed unfinalized batches and challengers (that might not even know of this vulnerability) starts challenging  each of the batches one by one assuming they're all correct batches and they all keep proving the correct state, so for every batch proving, 2 days is added to an already proven or unproven batch. At the end of the 10 batches challenging, all or most of the 10 batches will not be able to be finalized unless 19 days have passed and if these batches contain indexes following the finalized batches, batch finalization will be halted completely. And to add to this, according to the readMe this might not be 2 days addition it can be 7 days as a range was given. The only constraint on this is the ETH challengers will lose.

## Impact
Complete halting of batch finalization 

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L381-L384
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L298-L301
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L505
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L579-L581

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
First of all allow batches that have been proven to be finalized immediately  if they're indexed correctly and don't increase time for already proven batch when challenging.