Shambolic Banana Barbel

High

# Committed batches can be finalized without challenge period if `Rollup.sol` is paused

### Summary

If the owner of `Rollup.sol` pauses the contract and unpauses it more than 24 hours later, the opportunity exists for a malicious sequencer to commit a batch immediately before it's paused and finalize it immediately after it's unpaused, without any possibility of challenge.

This would allow them to have arbitrary data finalized, including giving themselves the ability to steal all funds in the rollup.

### Root Cause

In `Rollup.sol`, sequencers can call `commitBatch()` to add a batch. Challengers then have 24 hours to initiate a challenge. If they do so, the sequencer must provide a ZK proof. Otherwise, the batch is able to be finalized.

When [`setPause()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L444-L457) is called by the owner, all `committedBatches` remain active, with the 24 hour clock ticking towards finalization.

This is an issue because `challengeState()`, which needs to be called in order to initiate a challenge, [is guarded by the `whenNotPaused` modifier](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L367). In other words, we can only initiate challenges when the contract is not paused.

This leads to a situation when, after the contract is unpaused, batches may have had minimal "challengeable" time since being committed, but are ready to be finalized.

One particularly extreme example of this is that a sequencer could see the `setPause()` call in the mempool. At this point, they could frontrun it with a call to `commitBatch()`, which would start the 1 day clock ticking just as the pause began. If the contract remained paused for more than 24 hours, the sequencer could finalize the batch immediately upon unpause without any possibility of challenge.

### Internal Preconditions

None

### External Preconditions

1. `setPause()` is called by the owner to pause the contract, and is called to unpause the contract more than 24 hours later.

### Attack Path

1. Malicious sequencer sees an owner's call to pause `Rollup.sol` in the mempool.
2. They frontrun the `setPause()` call with a call to `commitBatch()`, which holds a malicious batch (for example, one that includes a withdrawal root that allows them to withdraw all the funds in the rollup).
3. The contract remains paused for more than 24 hours, before being unpaused by the owner.
4. The sequencer finalizes the batch immediately upon unpause, without any possibility of challenge.
5. They use the newly finalized withdrawal root to withdraw all the funds in the rollup.

### Impact

The malicious sequencer is able to steal all the funds in the rollup.

### PoC

N/A

### Mitigation

When `setPause()` is called, all batches between `lastFinalizedBatchIndex` and `lastCommittedBatchIndex` should be deleted.
