Crazy Jetblack Pigeon

Medium

# Slow finalization when the challenger loses the challenge

## Summary and Vulnerability Detail
Whenever a batch is challenged, we increase the finalizeTimestamp by the proofWindow. After the challenge, there can be two outcomes: the challenger can lose if a user proves that the batch was correct, or the challenger can win if the batch is deemed malicious.

A batch is considered malicious only when it cannot be proven correct. A user can only prove this if the block.timestamp is less than BatchChallenge.startTime + proofWindow.

Let's say a batch is malicious, and it can only be proven so after the proofWindow has passed. Since we increased the finalizeTimestamp of all batches (excluding the challenged batch) by the proofWindow, by the time the malicious batch is proven, the finalization time of all batches that were affected will converge. For example, if 10 batch number is challenged and 9 is not finalized, their finalizeTimestamp will have increased by the proofWindow. By the time the malicious batch is proven, the finalizeTimestamp of the 9 batch will be same as before. 

Now there is no mistake it work as expected.

There is a mistake when a challenger mistakenly challenges a correct batch, which slows down finalization. When the challenger challenges the block and the batch is correct, it can be proven immediately after the challenge. However, when the challenger initiated the challenge, the finalizeTimestamp of all batches (excluding the challenged batch) was increased by the proofWindow. While this process is complete, we neglected to decrease the finalizeTimestamp of all batches (only those whose finalizeTimestamp was increased) when the batch is proven to be correct.



## Impact
Slow finalization causes many issues, such as delayed withdrawals, poor user experience, increased gas fees, and potential impacts on smart contracts that rely on timely data.


## Code Snippet
```solidity
    function challengeState(uint64 batchIndex) external payable onlyChallenger nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {
        ...
        for (uint256 i = lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1; i <= lastCommittedBatchIndex; i++) {
            if (i != batchIndex) {
                batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp += proofWindow;
            }
        }

        inChallenge = true;
    }

    function proveState(
        bytes calldata _batchHeader,
        bytes calldata _aggrProof,
        bytes calldata _kzgDataProof
    ) external nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {
        // get batch data from batch header
        (uint256 memPtr, bytes32 _batchHash) = _loadBatchHeader(_batchHeader);
        // check batch hash
        uint256 _batchIndex = BatchHeaderCodecV0.getBatchIndex(memPtr);
        require(committedBatches[_batchIndex] == _batchHash, "incorrect batch hash");

        // Ensure challenge exists and is not finished
        require(batchInChallenge(_batchIndex), "batch in challenge");

        // Mark challenge as finished
        challenges[_batchIndex].finished = true;
        inChallenge = false;

        // Check for timeout
        if (challenges[_batchIndex].startTime + proofWindow <= block.timestamp) {
            // set status
            challenges[_batchIndex].challengeSuccess = true;
            _challengerWin(_batchIndex, batchDataStore[_batchIndex].signedSequencersBitmap, "Timeout");
        } else {
            _verifyProof(memPtr, _aggrProof, _kzgDataProof);
            // Record defender win
            _defenderWin(_batchIndex, _msgSender(), "Proof success");
        }
    }
```
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
My recommendation is to decrease the finalizeTimestamp of all batches whose finalizeTimestamp was increased when the challenge was created, when defender wins by proving the state correct.
## References
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L381-L388

