Odd Plum Crab

Medium

# When the Rollup is paused, the time to challenge batches continues to run, risking the challenge window for a malicious batch to expire and become unchallengeable

### Summary

Pausing the rollup contract lets the `finalizeTimestamp` of all the uncommited batches to run.
When the rollup is unpaused, the `finalizeTimestamp` is not compensated by the duration of the pause.
- This can allow sequencers to grief the Rollup contract when the proof of a legit batch can't be proved and the rollup contract would need to be paused.

[`Rollup.sol`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol)
```solidity
function challengeState(uint64 batchIndex) external payable onlyChallenger nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {
    ...
    //@audit => The batch must be in the challenge window, otherwise, it can't be challenged!
    // check challenge window
    require(batchInsideChallengeWindow(batchIndex), "cannot challenge batch outside the challenge window");
    ...
}

function batchInsideChallengeWindow(uint256 batchIndex) public view returns (bool) {
    //@audit => While the Rollup is paused, the `finalizeTimestamp` runs without been compensated for the duration of the pause
    return batchDataStore[batchIndex].finalizeTimestamp > block.timestamp;
}
```

The grief attack would looks like:
1. A legit batch is submitted and gets challenged
2. A malicious batch is submitted
3. The proof of the legit batch that got challenged can't be proved, therefore, the Rollup is paused to prevent the submited from being slashed because this batch is legit.
4. Unpause the Rollup contract when the proof of the legit batch can be proved.
5. Malicious batch gets confirmed because the time to challenge has run out while the Rollup contract was paused.

Not accounting for the duration of the pause can have as an unitended consequence the confirmation of a malicious batch because the time to challenge has run out.

### Root Cause

Pausing the rollup contract lets the time to challenge batches to run, when the rollup is unpaused, no time is added to compensate for the duration of the pause.


### Internal pre-conditions

Pausing the Rollup contract.


### External pre-conditions

none

### Attack Path

1. A legit batch is submitted and gets challenged
2. A malicious batch is submitted
3. The proof of the legit batch that got challenged can't be proved, therefore, the Rollup is paused to prevent the submited from being slashed because this batch is legit.
4. Unpause the Rollup contract when the proof of the legit batch can be proved.
5. Risk of confirming the malicious batch because the time to challenge has run out while the Rollup contract was paused.

### Impact

Potentially allowing sequencers to submit and get away with comitting malicious batches on the Rollup contract.


### PoC

All the details are explained in the Summary section


### Mitigation

Similar to how the `finalizeTimestamp` for all unfinalized batches is increased when a challenge is created, do the same when the contract is unpaused.
- Extend the `finalizeTimestamp` by the total duration of the pause.

Save the timestamp when the pause was initiated, and when unpausing, compute the total duration of the pause, use that value to extend the `finalizeTimestamp` of all unfinalized batches and reset to 0 the variable where the timestamp of the pause is stored.

[`Rollup.setPause()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L444-L457)
```solidity
contract Rollup ... {
  ...
+ uint256 pauseStarted;

  function setPause(bool _status) external onlyOwner {
      if (_status) {
          _pause();
          ...

+         pauseStarted = block.timestamp;
      } else {
          _unpause();

+         uint256 pauseDuration = block.timestamp - pauseStarted;
+         pauseStarted = 0;

          //@audit => Extend all uncommited batches by the duration of the pause
+         for (uint256 i = lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1; i <= lastCommittedBatchIndex; i++) {
+           if (i != batchIndex) {
+               batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp += pauseDuration;
+           }
+         }
      }
  }

  ....
}
```