Quaint Mahogany Bat

High

# A single malicious challenger can DoS the L1 rollup permanently because `Rollup.sol::_defenderWin` does not burn a portion of the `challengeDeposit`

### Summary

A single malicious challenger can increase the `finalizeTimestamp` of all batches without losing their `challengeDeposit`. This can be leveraged to cause a DoS to the system. Notably the time of the DoS increases with the number of currently committed and non-finalized batches, allowing for a prolonged, possibly permanent DoS.

### Root Cause

If we look at the design as a whole, one could say the problem is that challenging one batch increases the finalization time of all other batches but that is necessary to ensure all batches could be challenged.

[`Rollup.sol::_defenderWin`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L691-L695) refunds the prover the whole `challengeDeposit` without burning/taking any of the funds. This means there is nothing disincentivizing challengers from acting maliciously.

```solidity
function _defenderWin(uint256 batchIndex, address prover, string memory _type) internal {
    uint256 challengeDeposit = challenges[batchIndex].challengeDeposit;
    batchChallengeReward[prover] += challengeDeposit;
    emit ChallengeRes(batchIndex, prover, _type);
}
```

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

* challenger (`alice`) pre-computes a proof for all existing (non-faulty) batches
* `alice` then starts by challenging one of these batches by calling `challengeState`
  * this will increase the `finalizeTimestamp` of all other batches by `proofWindow` (currently set to `2 days`, can be up to `7 days`)
* in the same transaction, or directly after that, `alice` calls `proofState` with the precomputed proof
* this will accredit her the whole `challengeDeposit` which she should lose due to making an incorrect challenge
* this is then repeated for all existing batches, increasing the `finalizeTimestamp` of all batches for every challenged batch
* the `finalizationPeriodSeconds` is currently `1 day`. Assuming that at some point there are definitely `2 batches` committed simultaneously (severely lowballing it), the challenger can extend each of them for `2 days`
* also note that under the assumption that there is at least `1` new batch per day, this DoS can be prolonged practically forever since all other batches get again prolonged by `2 days` for each newly added batch


### Impact

The system can be DoSed for practically forever, causing no batches to be finalized, preventing any `L2 -> L1` withdrawals. This DoS also causes all pending withdrawals to be locked and unredeemable.


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Consider implementing the same `rewardPercentage` mechanism as for slashing. The lower that percentage is, the higher the cost for this exploit. Note that a sophisticated attacker might even be fine with spending `1 ETH / 2 days of DoS`. Therefore it might even be reasonable to increase the `challengeDeposit`. However increasing the `challengeDeposit` might cause less people to actually challenge faulty batches, again posing a risk.
