Shallow Clay Bear

Medium

# Malicious sequencers can leverage Rollup pausing to submit invalid batches that can be later finalized

### Summary

Malicious sequencers can frontrun `setPause()` in order to submit invalid batches. This leads to a situation where if pausing lasts for `finalizationPeriodSeconds` or more, the submitted invalid batch can be directly finalized after the contract is unpaused.

### Root Cause

Found in [Rollup.sol#L455](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L455).

When pausing, the only situation considered is that if the Rollup is in challenge, such challenge is cancelled:

```solidity
// Rollup.sol

function setPause(bool _status) external onlyOwner {
        if (_status) {
            _pause();
            // if challenge exist and not finished yet, return challenge deposit to challenger
            if (inChallenge) {
                batchChallengeReward[challenges[batchChallenged].challenger] += challenges[batchChallenged]
                    .challengeDeposit;
                delete challenges[batchChallenged];
                inChallenge = false;
            }
        } else {
            _unpause();
        }
    }
```

However, when the contract is being unpaused, the time during the contract has been paused is not considered for batches that were submitted previously to setting the Rollup to a paused state but yet not finalized is not considered for the finalization of such batches. This has two negative outcomes:

- If a contract is paused and there are submitted batches not yet finalized, the challenge period could be affected, as unpausing the paused state does not considered challenges that were not finalized.
- Malicious sequencers can take advantage of the current `setPause()` implementation in order to frontrun it and submit invalid batches. Due to the contract being paused, the batch can’t be challenged, and later after reverting the paused state the sequencer can immediately finalize the malicious batch by backrunning `setPause()`

### Internal pre-conditions

- Admin needs to pause the contract by calling `setPause()`

### External pre-conditions

None.

### Attack Path

As mentioned in root cause, the incorrect implementation of `setPause()` allows for two scenarios that could negatively affect Morph:

- Scenario 1: Regular scenario without malicious users
    1. Sequencer submits an batch (it is not known if it is valid or not, but it should be elegible for being challenged for at least the duration of the challenge window). Let’s say this is done at T=10 and the challenge period would finish at T=20
    2. The admin pauses the contract at T=12
    3. After some time, at T=24, the admin unpauses the contract.
    4. Because there is no logic that considers the duration of the pausing period, there has been a period of duration 8 (from T=12 to T=20) where the submitted batch couldn’t be challenged (it is worth noting that the `challengeState()` can’t be called if the contract is paused due to the `whenNotPaused` modifier). This is an issue, given that the batch could have been malicious, but challengers did not have the full expected challenge time to identify wether the batch was incorrect, neither to challenge it. 
- Scenario 2: Malicious sequencer leverages the incorrect pausing logic
    1. Due to external conditions, Morph’s admins decide to pause the protocol.
    2. A malicious sequencer sees this and frontruns the `setPause()` transaction, submitting a malicious batch.
    3. A situation similar to scenario 1 takes place: the batch can’t be challenged given that the contract is paused. If the duration of the pause is longer than the period in which the batch can be challenged, the malicious batch can’t possibly be challenged.
    4. When unpausing, the malicious sequencer could then directly submit a transaction to finalize the malicious batch, given that there’s no consideration in the contract for the period in which the contract has been paused.

### Impact

- Malicious sequencers can leverage the current pausing logic to submit invalid batches that could be finalized without capability of them being challenged. This could greatly harm Morph, given that invalid states would be effectively finalized
- The challenge period for unfinalized batches submitted prior to the Rollup being paused is shortened, reducing the challenge period for such batches and potentially leading to inconsistencies in the pausability logic, as well as the challenging logic.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

It is recommended to consider the duration of the pausing period, and increase the challenge period for batches that weren’t finalized before pausing the contract.