Crazy Jetblack Pigeon

High

# Malicious challenger can cause a DoS attack on the challengeState


## Description and Vulnerability Detail
The challengeState function is used to challenge a block index, which must be greater than the lastFinalizedBatchIndex. In this function, a loop is used to increase the finalizeTimestamp of each unfinalized batch index by the proofWindow.

```solidity
    function challengeState(uint64 batchIndex) external payable onlyChallenger nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {

        ...

        for (uint256 i = lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1; i <= lastCommittedBatchIndex; i++) {
            if (i != batchIndex) {
                batchDataStore[i].finalizeTimestamp += proofWindow;
            }
        }
         
        ...
    }
```

When `lastCommittedBatchIndex - lastFinalizedBatchIndex` is very large, it will cause the challengeState function to revert due to running out of gas.

Now, let's say our finalizationPeriod is 1 days, and the difference between lastCommittedBatchIndex and lastFinalizedBatchIndex is not large enough to cause a DoS. However, this difference will keep growing because the finalizeTimestamp increases by the proofWindow each time an unfinalized batch is challenged. During this time, the lastFinalizedBatchIndex will not increase for a while (for example, if lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1 is delayed by the proofWindow, it will take more time to finalize).


Scenario1: Let’s say lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1 is set to finalize in 10 seconds, but someone starts a challenge (even though the batch is not malicious). As a result, lastFinalizedBatchIndex + 1 will now finalize in 10 seconds plus the proofWindow. Immediately after challenging, the same challenger proves the batch(because of this he will not loss his funds). The same challenger can repeat this process multiple times in subsequent blocks, continuously increasing the difference between lastCommittedBatchIndex and lastFinalizedBatchIndex.

Scenario2: Even if we have a single malicious challenger, they can prevent other challengers from challenging a malicious batch. Let’s say we have multiple unfinalized batches, with the last one being malicious. Whenever a legitimate challenger attempts to challenge the malicious batch, the malicious challenger can front-run this by submitting their own challenge, targeting a legitimate batch instead. Since there is already an active challenge, the legitimate challenger’s attempt to challenge the malicious batch will revert. The malicious challenger can then resolve the challenge they initiated and reclaim their stake.


## Impact
The impact is high because the challenger cannot contest the malicious batch due to the DoS attack.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

My recommendation is that only sequencers listed in batchDataStore[_batchIndex].signedSequencersBitmap should be allowed to prove the state, or we should disallow challengers from proving altogether.


## References
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L491