Tangy Coconut Crocodile

Medium

# Users can lost its claimable rewards in Distribute contract if they undelegate and delegate back

### Summary

If users undelegates their stake from L2Staking contract and delegate some time later before claiming the rewards, then the claimable rewards for these epochs will be lost for the users

### Root Cause

When users delegate for the first time to a delegatee, the Distribute contract's `unclaimedStart` storage variable is set to the `effectiveEpoch` [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Distribute.sol#L111-L112).

Upon undelegation, the user's entire staked amount is withdrawn, and they can claim rewards up to the `unclaimedEnd` epoch [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Distribute.sol#L373-L379).

However, if the user delegates again without claiming these rewards, the `unclaimedStart` will be overridden, causing all previous epochs' claimable rewards to be lost. These unclaimed rewards can then be swept by the contract owner [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Distribute.sol#L341).

### Internal pre-conditions

1. User delegates.
2. User then undelegates.
3. User does not claim any rewards.
4. User delegates back to the same delegatee after some time, causing all the claimable rewards to be lost.

### External pre-conditions

None needed

### Attack Path

It is not an attack path but a logic can go wrong which would result the user to not claim its rewards. The flow is described in internal pre-conditions section.

### Impact

Users' claimable rewards will be lost if they delegate again without claiming their rewards. Additionally, these rewards cannot be recovered from the Distribute contract, as there is no functionality to sweep these lost rewards from the Distribute contract to another location. Thus, once the `unclaimedStart` is reset, the rewards for the previous epochs become irretrievable.

This can be interpreted as user mistake since it would be users responsibility to claim before delegate again. However, this was not stated in readme so I am reporting this as a medium severity finding.

### PoC

None needed

### Mitigation

Don't allow user to delegate back without claiming its rewards. 