Handsome Wool Bat

High

# Since unclaimedStart is overwritten, the user will lose the previous unclaimed rewards.

### Summary

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Distribute.sol#L94-L114

When a user makes a delegateStake, the contract  `Distribute` will record the user's stake amount and epoch for future reward distribution. When it’s a new user‘s delegation, `unclaimedStart` wil be recorded.

```solidity
        // update unclaimed info
        if (newDelegation) {
            unclaimed[delegator].delegatees.add(delegatee);
            unclaimed[delegator].unclaimedStart[delegatee] = effectiveEpoch;
        }
```

Later, user could calls `undelegateStake` and `claimUndelegation` to withdraw the staked amount. However, when the user delegateStakes after `claimUndelegation`, `unclaimedStart` will be overwritten, because at this time `delegations[delegatee][_msgSender()] == amount`. According to the logic of `_claim`, we know that `unclaimedStart` is the epoch number from which rewards can be claimed, so this means that users will lose previously unclaimed rewards.

### Root Cause

In `Distribute.sol#notifyDelegation`, unclaimedStart will be overwritten. At the same time, there is no logic to check whether the user has claimed the previous reward.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. There is a valid delegatee.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. The user calls delegateStake to stake.
2. The user calls undelegateStake in order to withdraw the staked amount. 
3. The user calls claimUndelegation to withdraw the staked amount.
4. The user calls delegateStake to stake again.

### Impact

The user will lose the unclaimed rewards.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

The contract can help users collect rewards when they `claimUndelegation`.