Crazy Jetblack Pigeon

High

# Delegating Stake Without Claiming Reward Causes Loss

## Summary and Vulnerability Detail
In `L2Staking`, we have a function that allows stake delegation to a delegatee.
This function then calls notifyDelegation in the Distribute contract, and if newDelegation is true, it will modify unclaimedStart to effectiveEpoch.

If a user delegates stake without claiming rewards from their previous stake, he will lose those rewards.

Scenario: A user delegates their stake to a delegatee and, after some epochs, decides to undelegate the stake. Later, the user chooses to delegate to the same delegatee again, but first calls claimUndelegation to pass the requirement `require(!_unclaimed(_msgSender(), delegatee), "undelegation unclaimed")`. However, when the user delegates the stake again, they will lose the rewards from the previous delegation.

This is a smart contract issue, not the user’s mistake. There should either be a function that allows users to claim rewards from their previous stake, or we should enforce a rule that prevents users from delegating again without first claiming their previous rewards.


## Impact
Impact is high because it causes loss of user rewards.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
There should either be a function that allows users to claim rewards from their previous stake, or we should enforce a rule that prevents users from delegating again without first claiming their previous rewards.

## References


https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Distribute.sol#L94-L114