Calm Khaki Sealion

Medium

# Uninvoked _disableInitializers Function in CrossDomainMessenger Contract

## Summary
The CrossDomainMessenger contract does not invoke the _disableInitializers() function in its constructor. While this may appear to be a design choice, it leaves the implementation contract vulnerable to unauthorized initialization, which poses a significant security risk.

In proxy-based upgradeable contracts, the initialize function replaces constructors, and calling _disableInitializers() in the constructor of the implementation contract ensures it cannot be reinitialized once deployed. Without it, attackers can directly interact with the implementation contract and reinitialize it, even after the proxy contract has been initialized.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `_disableInitializers` function is not called, making the implementation contract susceptible to initialization by an attacker.

An attacker can initialize the implementation contract directly, becoming its owner. This ownership allows them to execute functions protected by `onlyOwner`, including those that could delegatecall a self-destruct opcode, rendering the implementation unusable and preventing proxy upgrades.
 

## Impact
Even though the contract may be intended to be initialized only once via the proxy, not locking the implementation contract introduces the following risks:

Unauthorized Ownership Takeover: An attacker can interact directly with the implementation contract (bypassing the proxy), call the initialize function, and become the owner of the contract. This could allow them to perform owner-restricted actions, such as pausing the contract or updating critical addresses.
Re-initialization of Critical State Variables: State variables (such as the feeVault or counterpart addresses) could be reset or altered by an attacker. This could disrupt the functionality of cross-domain messaging and cause operational issues for both chains interacting with this contract

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/libraries/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L68

```sol

    /***************
     * Constructor *
     ***************/

    /* solhint-disable */
    function __Messenger_init(address _counterpart, address _feeVault) internal onlyInitializing {
        OwnableUpgradeable.__Ownable_init();
        PausableUpgradeable.__Pausable_init();
        ReentrancyGuardUpgradeable.__ReentrancyGuard_init();

        // initialize to a nonzero value
        xDomainMessageSender = Constants.DEFAULT_XDOMAIN_MESSAGE_SENDER;

        counterpart = _counterpart;
        if (_feeVault != address(0)) {
            feeVault = _feeVault;
        }
    }
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

OpenZeppelin Guidelines: According to OpenZeppelin's upgradeable contracts documentation, it is a best practice to call _disableInitializers() in the constructor of implementation contracts to prevent unauthorized initialization.

Industry Standards: Most secure upgradeable contract implementations incorporate this safeguard to ensure the integrity and security of the contract.

Ensure `_disableInitializers()` is called in the constructor to lock the implementation contract when deployed automatically.

By invoking the `_disableInitializers` function in the constructor, you can prevent unauthorized initialization of the implementation contract. This measure ensures that even if someone attempts to initialize it directly, they will be unable to gain ownership or execute critical functions, thereby protecting against potential attacks.


```sol
/// @custom:oz-upgrades-unsafe-allow constructor
constructor() {
    _disableInitializers();
}

```

## References

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Record.sol#L84
https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Record.sol#L95

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L94
https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L109

https://solodit.xyz/issues/missing-disableinitializers-in-constructor-can-lead-to-malicious-takeover-of-the-implementation-contract-zokyo-none-zap-markdown

https://solodit.xyz/issues/no-protection-of-uninitialized-implementation-contracts-from-attacker-consensys-none-leequid-staking-markdown

https://solodit.xyz/issues/m-05-adapters-logic-contracts-can-be-destroyed-code4rena-popcorn-popcorn-contest-git

https://solodit.xyz/issues/missing-disableinitializers-call-in-proxy-upgradeable-contract-constructor-zokyo-none-zap-markdown

