Calm Khaki Sealion

Medium

# Missing _disableInitializers() in MorphToken Contract

## Summary

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l2/system/MorphToken.sol#L71

The MorphToken contract is vulnerable to unauthorized re-initialization due to the absence of the _disableInitializers() function in the constructor. This oversight leaves the implementation contract open to potential attacks where an attacker could reset the contract's state, including total supply, ownership, and inflation settings, leading to a possible takeover or disruption of the token's intended functionality.

## Vulnerability Detail

The MorphToken contract follows an upgradeable proxy pattern, where the constructor is replaced by an initialize function to set key contract variables such as the token's name, symbol, total supply, and inflation rate. However, the contract does not call _disableInitializers() in the constructor, which leaves the implementation contract vulnerable to re-initialization.

In an upgradeable pattern, once the proxy contract has initialized the contract, the implementation contract must be locked to prevent future calls to initialize. Without _disableInitializers(), an attacker can call initialize on the implementation contract again, which can lead to critical issues such as ownership takeovers, resetting token balances, or modifying inflation settings.

## Impact

Unauthorized Re-initialization: An attacker can call initialize() on the implementation contract, passing new parameters to reset the contract's state variables.
Ownership Takeover: The attacker could change the contract’s owner by passing a new owner address in the initialize function.
State Manipulation: Parameters such as the token name, symbol, total supply, and inflation rates could be altered, which can severely impact token distribution and the overall system relying on this token.

## Code Snippet
```sol
   /// @notice constructor
    constructor() {
        L2_STAKING_CONTRACT = Predeploys.L2_STAKING;
        DISTRIBUTE_CONTRACT = Predeploys.DISTRIBUTE;
        RECORD_CONTRACT = Predeploys.RECORD;
    }

    /**************
     * Initialize *
     **************/

    /// @dev See {IMorphToken-initialize}.
    function initialize(
        string memory name_,
        string memory symbol_,
        address _owner,
        uint256 initialSupply_,
        uint256 dailyInflationRate_
    ) public initializer {
        _name = name_;
        _symbol = symbol_;
        _mint(_owner, initialSupply_);
        _epochInflationRates.push(EpochInflationRate(dailyInflationRate_, 0));
        _transferOwnership(_owner);

        emit UpdateEpochInflationRate(dailyInflationRate_, 0);
    }

```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

OpenZeppelin Guidelines: According to OpenZeppelin's upgradeable contracts documentation, it is a best practice to call _disableInitializers() in the constructor of implementation contracts to prevent unauthorized initialization.

Industry Standards: Most secure upgradeable contract implementations incorporate this safeguard to ensure the integrity and security of the contract.

Ensure _disableInitializers() is called in the constructor to lock the implementation contract when deployed automatically.

By invoking the _disableInitializers function in the constructor, you can prevent unauthorized initialization of the implementation contract. This measure ensures that even if someone attempts to initialize it directly, they will be unable to gain ownership or execute critical functions, thereby protecting against potential attacks.

```sol
/// @custom:oz-upgrades-unsafe-allow constructor
constructor() {
    _disableInitializers();
}

```

## Reference

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Record.sol#L84
https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/Record.sol#L95

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L94
https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L109

https://solodit.xyz/issues/missing-disableinitializers-in-constructor-can-lead-to-malicious-takeover-of-the-implementation-contract-zokyo-none-zap-markdown

https://solodit.xyz/issues/no-protection-of-uninitialized-implementation-contracts-from-attacker-consensys-none-leequid-staking-markdown

https://solodit.xyz/issues/m-05-adapters-logic-contracts-can-be-destroyed-code4rena-popcorn-popcorn-contest-git

https://solodit.xyz/issues/missing-disableinitializers-call-in-proxy-upgradeable-contract-constructor-zokyo-none-zap-markdown