Flaky Plum Pig

High

# Value can be repeatedly extracted from the `Rollup` contract by front-running `proveState` call and extracting ZKP

## Summary
After challenge is created, the window for defending a batch is open. During this window a sequencer (prover) can craft and submit a proof to defend the challenge. If the proof is successfully verified, the sequencer will collect a reward.

However the function lacks any access control and the arguments - provided proofs are not linked with an address that obtained (computed) the proof. This makes the function vulnerable to a simple MEV strategy of front-running this function with proof extracted from the pending transactions.

The issue was discussed in the shared document. But based on the team response I believe the issue is valid, it should be fixed and the impact is not well understood.

----
_Is there any mechanism in place to prevent front-running a call to proveState?_
_A: For the challenged Sequencer, they must generate ZKP for the challenge within the
Proof Window, otherwise they will be slashed. So they are more willing to see other
people help them generate ZKP in advance. The payment of validator is aimed at
covering the zkp cost, so others are not very motivated to front run the zkp_

The point that seems like the team is missing is, that attacker can **extract generated ZKP from the Sequencer's transaction**. Which means collect the reward **without generating ZKP**!

## Vulnerability Detail
In the final part of the function `proveState` we can see the time window for challenge defender to defend a challenge:
```solidity
if (challenges[_batchIndex].startTime + proofWindow <= block.timestamp) {
        // set status
        challenges[_batchIndex].challengeSuccess = true;
        _challengerWin(_batchIndex, batchDataStore[_batchIndex].signedSequencersBitmap, "Timeout");
} else {
        _verifyProof(memPtr, _aggrProof, _kzgDataProof);
       // Record defender win
       _defenderWin(_batchIndex, _msgSender(), "Proof success");
}
```

If the proof is successfully verified, the function `_defenderWin` is executed with a `_msgSennder() = msg.sender`, where we can see the reward is assigned to the sender:

```solidity
function _defenderWin(uint256 batchIndex, address prover, string memory _type) internal {
        uint256 challengeDeposit = challenges[batchIndex].challengeDeposit;
        batchChallengeReward[prover] += challengeDeposit;
        emit ChallengeRes(batchIndex, prover, _type);
 }
```

The amount can be withdraw by calling `claimReward`.

## Impact
The system should be designed in a way to create a fair competition for sequencers. In this case the motivation to provide a computing power to craft a ZK proof, is collecting the defending reward. If set of sequencers is monitored for prove submitting, simple MEV strategy can keep extracting the value for prove defenders, by extracting and submitting a ZK proof without actually generating it. This can be considered stealing of rewards and breaking the competition design of the protocol. Together with a fact that L1 re-org issues are accepted in this competition, I believe this is high severity issue.

## Code snippet

The vulnerable function:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L465C1-L493C6

## Tool used

Manual Review

Wake

## Recommendation
Add a signature, or connect the address to the proof. Or at least use a whitelist for sequencers to call the function so the competition stays in between the honest actors - sequencers
