Shambolic Banana Barbel

High

# `proveState()` can be frontrun to steal challenge deposit

### Summary

Since any caller can get paid the `challengeDeposit` reward for calling `proveState()`, generalized frontrunning bots will steal the reward from sequencers who have generated and submitted the ZK proof, taking their funds and breaking the incentive structure of the system.

### Root Cause

In `Rollup.sol`, the `proveState()` function can be used by an honest sequencer to [submit their ZK proof](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L465C12-L493C1) after they've been challenged.

The intention is that a challenger must post a deposit (1 ETH, [according to the config](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KDQ8LkB53yw7f0m8a0LCTIdyiANjKyqC-sKUQEQGSf8/edit?gid=0#gid=0)), which will cover the cost of the sequencer needing to generate the ZK proof, which can be computationally expensive.

However, once the sequencer has generated the proof and sent their transaction to the mempool, any other user can see this transaction (with the proof included) and submit an identical transaction to claim the 1 ETH prize.

Note that this is the exact behavior that the simplest generalized frontrunning bots look for (submit identical transaction, earn ETH), so it is highly likely that no `proveState()` calls will lead to the sequencer earning the challenge.

This topic is covered in the [Q&A](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lUr_Tu20FzOBB48wXAiQNJJGdB0Hl54xQs6euDEmmHg/edit):

> The payment of validator is aimed at covering the zkp cost, so others are not very motivated to front run the zkp.

This response appears to misunderstand the issue and not address the important risk that the frontrunner does not need to generate the proof, but only submit an identical transaction.

While the frontrunning risk will lead to loss of funds spent on compute for sequencers, more importantly, it creates a situation where sequencers are expected to pay out of pocket with no upside to generate the computationally expensive ZK proof, which could harm the integrity of the system.

### Internal Preconditions

None

### External Preconditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Sequencer commits to a batch and is challenged.
2. They spend resources to generate the ZK proof and call `proveState()`.
3. A generalized frontrunning bot sees the transaction in the mempool and frontruns it to submit the same proof and claim the 1 ETH.

### Impact

Sequencers who generate and submit proofs can have their rewards stolen by generalized frontrunning bots, stealing the funds they've earned and breaking the incentive structure of the system.

### PoC

N/A

### Mitigation

Always send the reward to the sequencer who submitted the batch. This creates a risk that the sequencer doesn't generate the proof, but since this only results in the batch being reverted, there's no risk of invalid states.
