Tangy Coconut Crocodile

Medium

# Sequencers can lose their commission fees if they are removed

### Summary

Removed sequencers commissions fee can stuck in the Distribute contract

### Root Cause

In [Distribute.sol:215](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L215-L217) only active stakers can claim the comission fees. However, a staker can be removed by owner or as a slash result and the so far commission fees would be trapped in the Distribute contract.

```solidity
function claimCommission(uint256 targetEpochIndex) external onlyStaker nonReentrant {
        IDistribute(DISTRIBUTE_CONTRACT).claimCommission(_msgSender(), targetEpochIndex);
  }
```

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Staker has been acting correct and the commission fees accrues every epoch
2. Staker got slashed or owner removed them and staker is no longer a staker. 

### External pre-conditions

None needed

### Attack Path

Once the staker is out of the system the so far accumulated commission fees are stuck in the Distribute contract. There are no way to claim back these tokens aside from a upgrade to the smart contract

### Impact

The accumulated commission fees for the staker have been lost, and it's not possible to recover the tokens from the Distribute contract.

A staker can be removed for three reasons:
1. The staker withdraws on their own. [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L197-L214)
2. The staker is removed by the owner. [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L178-L194)
3. The staker is slashed. [Link](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L217-L246)

For the first case, where the staker (sequencer) withdraws, it could be considered the sequencer's mistake if they withdraw before claiming their commission fees. However, in cases 2 and 3, the situation is beyond the sequencer’s control. If the sequencer is slashed, it shouldn’t affect their previous claimable rewards, since they have already paid a penalty through the slashing of their stake. Similarly, if the owner of the L1Staking contract removes the sequencer for various reasons, including inactivity ("AFK"), it should not affect the sequencer’s previous rewards, as these rewards were earned while the sequencer was active in the system.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Allow the stakers to claim the rewards even when they are not actively staking