Shallow Clay Bear

High

# Unclaimed commissions from removed L2 stakers will remain locked forever in the Distribute contract

### Summary

The `onlyStaker` check in `claimCommission()` prevents removed stakers from claiming their corresponding commissions from the Distribute contract, leading to funds stuck forever.

### Root Cause

In [L2Staking.sol:L215](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L215) the `claimCommission()` function restricts calls to the function via the `onlyStaker` modifier:

```solidity
// File: L2Staking.sol

modifier onlyStaker() {
		require(stakerRankings[_msgSender()] > 0, "only staker allowed");
		_;
}

...

function claimCommission(uint256 targetEpochIndex) external onlyStaker nonReentrant {
		IDistribute(DISTRIBUTE_CONTRACT).claimCommission(_msgSender(), targetEpochIndex); 
}
```

As shown in the snippet, `claimCommission()` can only be called by addresses that have a `stakerRankings` (i.e, addresses currently considered as stakers in `L2Staking.sol`).

The problem with gating calls to `claimCommission()` only to stakers is that commissions corresponding to a staker that has been removed will remain locked forever in the Distribute contract, being unretrievable.

As shown in the following snippet, removing a staker via `removeStakers()` will delete its ranking:

```solidity
// File: L2Staking.sol

function removeStakers(address[] calldata remove) external onlyOtherStaking {
		...
		delete stakerRankings[remove[i]];
		
		...
}
```

Because of this, a situation can arise where a removed staker had pending claimable commissions that won’t be able to be claimed, given that it is not possible to add a staker that has been removed, and commissions can only be claimed by the `msg.sender` that commissions belong to.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. A staker has been acting as a sequencer in the L2. 
2. He has accrued commissions but has not claimed them yet.

### External pre-conditions

None.

### Attack Path

1. The staker has been acting as sequencer and has accumulated some commissions.
2. The staker is removed from the staking system (either by withdrawing or by being slashed in L1Staking). 
3. Because the staker has been removed, he can no longer claim the commissions due to the modifier in `claimCommissions()`, making them be locked forever in the contract.

### Impact

The accumulated commissions for a removed staker will be stuck forever in the Distribute contract, given that commissions can only be claimed by the corresponding staker that has accumulated them. Moreover, stakers that have been removed can’t be re-added to the system, making it impossible to retrieve the stuck MORPH tokens by a third party. In certain scenarios, the amount locked could be big, depending on the amount of commissions accrued by the staker, hence making this issue of high impact.

> Note: As mentioned in the “Attack path” section, there are two ways for a staker to be removed in the L1: by withdrawing and by being slashed. If the cause of the staker removal is due to the actual staker having withdrawn in the L1, this could be considered a staker’s mistake, as he is trying to withdraw the stake prior to claiming commissions. However, if the staker is actually slashed, the system should be prepared to handle staker’s commissions that have not been claimed (either still allowing the staker to claim such commissions, or making them be redistributed among the participants in the staking system).


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

As mentioned in the "impact" note, there are two ways to fix this issue:

- If the protocol team considers that a slashed staker should not be able to access any of its unclaimed commissions in the L2, such commissions should be retrieved and redistributed to other participants in the system.
- On the other hand, if the L1 slash is sufficient to punish the staker, consider removing the `onlyStaker` modifier from the `claimCommissions()` function. Because this function works with `msg.sender`, such function will still work as intended, only allowing actually elegible stakers to claim their corresponding commissions.
    
    ```diff
    // L2Staking.sol
    function claimCommission(uint256 targetEpochIndex) 
    		external 
    -		onlyStaker 
    		nonReentrant {
    
    		IDistribute(DISTRIBUTE_CONTRACT).claimCommission(_msgSender(), targetEpochIndex); 
    }
    ```