Nice Laurel Turtle

Medium

# Unchecked Array Access and Lack of Bounds Validation in RollupVerifier Contract

## Summary
The `RollupVerifier` contract, performs numerous unchecked accesses to the `proof` array particularly in the `get_wx_wg` function. This lack of bounds checking could lead to out-of-bounds access, potentially causing the contract to revert or process invalid data.

## Vulnerability Detail

Throughout the contract, especially in the `get_wx_wg` function, elements of the proof array are accessed directly without prior length validation. For example:

```
t0 = (mulmod(proof[107], proof[107], q_mod));
t0 = (addmod(t0, q_mod - proof[107], q_mod));
m[33] = (mulmod(m[20], t0, q_mod));
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/libraries/verifier/RollupVerifier.sol#L538-L540

The `get_wx_wg` function in the `RollupVerifier` contract performs unchecked accesses to the `proof` array. 

Specifically:

1. The code accesses `proof[107]` without verifying the length of the array, suggesting that it requires a minimum of 108 elements for proper functionality. 
2. Similar unchecked accesses occur throughout the function with various indices.
3. The highest observed index is 107, but higher indices may be accessed in unseen parts of the contract. It is essential to implement a length check before such access to prevent potential errors or vulnerabilities.

## Impact

1. If called internally, it might lead to incomplete execution of the verification process.
2.  It could lead to unintended memory reads, potentially undermining the integrity of proof verification, if the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) were to malfunction and not revert to out-of-bounds memory access
3. It doesn't directly lead to fund loss, and it severely impacts the contract's ability to verify proofs, which is crucial correctly.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/libraries/verifier/RollupVerifier.sol#L536-L542

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

1. Ensure that a rigorous length validation is performed at the start of each function.
2. Create extensive unit tests to examine the contract's behavior with various proof lengths, including tests that target edge cases.
3. Should consider developing an independent validation function that confirms all mandatory indices are within the defined bounds.