Shambolic Banana Barbel

Medium

# L1 re-org can cause valid challenge to be lost

### Summary

Because `challengeState()` is called with just an index and not the entire batch, an L1 reorg can cause a challenge that was intended to be against an invalid batch to be performed against a different (valid) batch.

### Root Cause

In `Rollup.sol`, the `challengeState()` function is called by a challenger against a batch that has previously been committed. It requires the challenger to post a deposit (currently set to 1 ETH), and rewards them with the sequencer's stake if the challenge is successful.

When `challengeState()` is called, the full batch header being challenged is not passed. Instead, just the `batchIndex` is passed ([see code here](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L367)).

In the event of the L1 reorg, the batch itself can change, while the batch index remains the same (for example, if a different `commitBatch()` function is called first, which would propose a different batch at the same index).

This leads to the risk for a challenger of calling `challengeState()` for an invalid batch (which they would win), but instead have the transaction land against a valid batch, costing them `challangeDeposit()` (currently 1 ETH).

Note that in the README, it says:

> The Morph L2 will not re-org by design, so issues of L2 re-org are invalid. But if there is any issue about Ethereum L1 re-org leading to financial loss, that issue is valid.

While Sherlock does not usually include L1 re-org issues, the README supercedes Sherlock's rules and specifically asks for this behavior to be included. Since this leads to a financial loss for the challenger, it is explicitly in scope.

### Internal Preconditions

None

### External Preconditions

1. L1 must have a re-org after an invalid batch is committed.
2. In its place, a valid batch must be committed (which will lead to it landing at the same index).

### Attack Path

1. Sequencer posts an invalid batch.
2. Challenger submits a transaction that challenges this batch, based on the index.
3. The chain re-orgs and the sequencer submits a new, valid batch in its place.
4. The challenger's transaction lands against the new, valid batch, and the sequencer is able to provide a ZK proof to win the challenge.

### Impact

The challenger ends up challenging an invalid state, which will lead to a loss of 1 ETH.

### PoC

N/A

### Mitigation

`challengeState()` should require the challenger to include either the full batch or the batch hash in order to verify the correct batch is being challenged.
