Odd Plum Crab

Medium

# Increasing the sequencerSetMaxSize to be bigger latestSequencerSetSize does not adds sequencers with enough voting power to become part of the sequencerSet based on the new size.

### Summary

The [number of sequencers that can belong to the sequencerSet is limited by the `sequencerSetMaxSize`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L565-L572). When this value is reduced to be lower than the `latestSequencerSetSize`, the sequencerSet is correctly updated to reduce the number of sequencers belonging to the sequencerSet.
- The problem is that [when the `sequencerSetMaxSize` is increased to be bigger than the `latestSequencerSetSize` the sequencerSet is not updated](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L221-L234), this means, there can be stakers with enough delegation voting power to become active sequencers based on the new size of the sequencerSet, but, because the sequencerSet is not automatically updated in this case, those stakers will not be added as sequencers, meaning, they won't be elegible to produce blocks, therefore, they won't be elegible to receive rewards for their delegators nor they can earn comissions.

For example, if the current value for `latestSequencerSetSize` is 3, and there are stakers with the following voting power:
1. 100
2. 75
3. 50
4. 35
5. 30
6. 10
7. 0

The current sequencerSet is composed of stakers 1,2 & 3, but, if the `sequencerSetMaxSize` is increased to 5, this means that stakers 4 & 5 can also belong to the sequencerSet. But, because the sequencerSet is not automatically added, those 2 stakers won't be added until the `_updateSequencerSet()` is called as a result of another operation, for example, adding a new staker, removing an existing staker belonging to the sequencerSet.
- Stakers 4 & 5 have enough voting power to become sequencers, but, they won't until one of the below conditions is met.

The reason to submit this as a medium severity is that it requires some specific conditions for the [`_updateSequencerSet()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L564-L589) to be called, it is not called anytime a new staker is added, or an staker is removed, it is called only when the next conditions are met (which this makes the time for the stakers with enough voting power to finally be added to the sequencerSet to be more than what it should take, the more time it takes to add them, the more comissions and rewards they are loosing):
1. When [adding a new staker](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L166-L168):
- If the rewards have been started, the sequencerSet is not updated when adding a new staker
```solidity
function addStaker(Types.StakerInfo calldata add) external onlyOtherStaking {
    ...

    //@audit => If rewards have started, don't update sequencerSet
    if (!rewardStarted && stakerAddresses.length <= sequencerSetMaxSize) {
        _updateSequencerSet();
    }
}
```

2. When [removing a Staker](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L176-L178):
- Only when removing a staker that belongs to the current sequencerSet.
```solidity
function removeStakers(address[] calldata remove) external onlyOtherStaking {
    ...

    for (uint256 i = 0; i < remove.length; i++) {
        //@audit => If a staker belonging to the current sequencer set is removed, then it is required to update the sequencerSet!
        if (stakerRankings[remove[i]] <= latestSequencerSetSize) {
            updateSequencerSet = true;
        }

        ...

    }
    emit StakerRemoved(remove);

    //@audit => Update sequencerSet only if a removed staker was part of the sequencerSet
    if (updateSequencerSet) {
        _updateSequencerSet();
    }
}
```

3. When delegating to a staker:
- This may be the only way for the sequencers to join the sequencer after the `sequencerSetMaxSize` has been increased, though, this requires to get more delegations even though they already have enough delegations to become part of the sequencerSet. This also depends until the time those stakers get more delegations.

4. When [undelegating to a staker](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L395-L402):
- This maybe one of the most complicated ways to update the sequencerSet. When undelegating, only if the undelegated staker was part of the sequencerSet and after the undelegation has lost sufficient voting power so that is ranking goes down to be kicked out of the sequencerSet.
```solidity
function undelegateStake(address delegatee) external nonReentrant {
    ...

    uint256 beforeRanking = stakerRankings[delegatee];
    
    ...

    //@audit => sequencerSet is update only if the delegatee was part of the sequencerSet and after the undelegation lost sufficient voting power to lose its ranking!
    if (
        !removed &&
        rewardStarted &&
        beforeRanking <= latestSequencerSetSize &&
        (stakerRankings[delegatee] > latestSequencerSetSize || stakerRankings[delegatee] > candidateNumber)
    ) {
        _updateSequencerSet();
    }
}
```

As we can see, to update the sequencerSet there are some specific conditions that needs to be met, this causes that the pending stakers who already have enough voting power to become part of the sequencerSet (after the `sequencerSetMaxSize` has been increased) to not be set as sequencers, which means, they won't be producing rewards for their delegators nor they will be earning comissions.

### Root Cause

sequencerSet is not updated when the `sequencerSetMaxSize` is increased bigger than `latestSequencerSetSize`


### Internal pre-conditions

`sequencerSetMaxSize` is increased bigger than `latestSequencerSetSize`


### External pre-conditions

none

### Attack Path

1. Owner increases the `sequencerSetMaxSize` > latestSequencerSetSize so that there can be more sequencers.
2. Stakers with enough voting power that could become part of the sequencerSet are not added after the increase.
3. SequencerSet is not updated only under certain conditions, which makes uncertain the time until the stakers are finally added to the sequencerSet.
4. Stakers with enough voting power loses on rewards and comissions as time passes and they have not been added to the sequencerSet based on the new size!

### Impact

Stakers with enough voting power will be losing on rewards and comissions because the sequencerSet is not automatically updated when the sequencerSetMaxSize is increased.


### PoC

All the details are explained on the Summary section.


### Mitigation

Whenever the `sequencerSetMaxSize` is updated, call the `_updateSequencerSet()`, this function is capable of determining what is the correct sequencerSet based on the maximum size.

[`L2Staking.sol`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L221-L234)
```solidity
function updateSequencerSetMaxSize(uint256 _sequencerSetMaxSize) external onlyOwner {
    ...

-   if (sequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize) {
-       // update sequencer set
-       _updateSequencerSet();
-   }

+   _updateSequencerSet();    
}
```