Quaint Mahogany Bat

Medium

# Incorrect sequencer update condition in `updateSequencerSetMaxSize`

### Summary

When `L2Staking.sol::updateSequencerSetMaxSize` is called to update the `sequencerSetMaxSize`, `_updateSequencerSet` is not called in all necessary cases, causing the `sequencerSet` to be outdated.

Note: The sponsor confirmed the validity of this issue in a private thread, confirming that the `if` condition does not cover all cases it should.


### Root Cause

In [`L2Staking.sol::updateSequencerSetMaxSize`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L230-L233), the `if` condition, which decides if `_updateSequencerSet` should be called, is incorrect.

```solidity
function updateSequencerSetMaxSize(uint256 _sequencerSetMaxSize) external onlyOwner {
    
    // [...]

    if (sequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize) {
        console.log("updating sequencer set");
        // update sequencer set
        _updateSequencerSet();
    }
}
```
As we can see, `_updateSequencerSet` is only updated if the new `sequencerSetMaxSize` is smaller than the current `latestSequencerSetSize` which is the size of the current sequencer set. This means any increases of the `sequencerSetMaxSize` which would increase the sequencer set size, are not reflected onto the actual sequencer set.

Note that the only case where we do not want to update the sequencer set is when both the old and the new `sequencerSetMaxSize` are bigger than `latestSequencerSetSize`. In this case we do not need to update as no sequencers would be removed or added.


### Internal pre-conditions

* `oldSequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize`
* `newSequencerSetMaxSize > latestSequencerSetSize`


### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

Scenario in this case

* `latestSequencerSetSize = 10`
* `stakerAddresses.length = 20`
* `sequencerSetMaxSize = 10`
* `updateSequencerSetMaxSize` is called with `_sequencerSetMaxSize = 20` to increase the sequencer set from `10` to `20`
* due to the incorrect `if` statement, `sequencerSetMaxSize` gets set to `20` but the sequencer set is not updated and it stays the same even though it should be increased by `10` sequencers


### Impact

Admin's changes to the `sequencerSet` are not reflected onto the sequencer set. This breaks intended core functionality as the admin should be able to directly influence the amount of sequencers used by calling `updateSequencerSetMaxSize`. 


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Consider changing the `if` statement from `if (sequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize)` to `if (!(_oldSequencerSetMaxSize > latestSequencerSetSize && sequencerSetMaxSize >= latestSequencerSetSize))` to ensure the sequencer set is updated accordingly in all cases where a change to the max size would reflect on the used sequencer set.