Shallow Clay Bear

Medium

# Updating the sequencer set max size to a greater size will make actually elegible stakers to miss rewards

### Summary

When updating the sequencer set’s max size via `updateSequencerSetMaxSize()`, the current logic will only trigger the `_updateSequencerSet()` (to actually update sequencer set with the new size) if the new sequencer set size is smaller than the previous set size. This is incorrect, as updating the sequencer set size to a greater value will make elegible stakers not be included on the set for some time, preventing them from acting as sequencers (although they should be), and making them miss their corresponding rewards.

### Root Cause

Found in [L2Staking.sol#L230](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/staking/L2Staking.sol#L230).

In `L2Staking.sol`, the `updateSequencerSetMaxSize()` will only update the sequencer set if the new `_sequencerSetMaxSize` is smaller than `latestSequencerSetSize`:

```solidity
// L2Staking.sol

function updateSequencerSetMaxSize(uint256 _sequencerSetMaxSize) external onlyOwner {
        require(
            _sequencerSetMaxSize > 0 && _sequencerSetMaxSize != sequencerSetMaxSize,
            "invalid new sequencer set max size"
        );
        uint256 _oldSequencerSetMaxSize = sequencerSetMaxSize;
        sequencerSetMaxSize = _sequencerSetMaxSize;
        emit SequencerSetMaxSizeUpdated(_oldSequencerSetMaxSize, _sequencerSetMaxSize);

        if (sequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize) {
            // update sequencer set
            _updateSequencerSet();
        }
    }
```

The problem with only updating the sequencer set when its size is reduced is that increasing the sequencer set size will make actually elegible stakers to not be included in the set, making them miss the corresponding rewards that they would have earned if they had been added to the set to act as sequencers.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. There are stakers registered in the `L2Staking` contract. 
2. Only a subset of them is actually acting as sequencers because the current `sequencerSetMaxSize` is smaller than the total stakers registered in the contract.
3. The rest of stakers not acting as sequencers have some delegated MORPH tokens, making them elegible to be sequencers if the set is increased.
4. After updating the sequencer set, there are not calls to other functions that reorder the sequencer set (for example, one epoch passes in which no delegations/undelegations have occured).

### External pre-conditions

None.

### Attack Path

The following example illustrates how this bug could lead to stakers to miss sequencing rewards:

1. There 6 stakers registered in the `L2Staking` contract, and all of them have some delegated MORPH tokens. However, the current `sequencerSetMaxSize` is set to 4. Because of this, only the 4 stakers with the most delegated MORPH tokens are included in the set.
2. The contract owner triggers `updateSequencerSetMaxSize()` and increases the `sequencerSetMaxSize` from 4 to 6. This should make the remaining 2 stakers (that actually have some delegated MORPH tokens, making them elegible to be included in the set) be directly included in the sequencer set.
3. Because the new sequencer set max size is not smaller than the previous set size, the `if (sequencerSetMaxSize < latestSequencerSetSize)` is false, so `_updateSequencerSet()` is not called and the set is not actually updated.
4. Because of the previous condition not being fulfilled, the 2 actually elegible stakers are not included in the sequencer set, making them lose the corresponding commissions that they would have earned if they were included in the set.

### Impact

The elegible stakers that weren’t included in the set after updating the sequencer set size will miss the corresponding commissions that they would have earned. Such commissions will be lost for as many epochs as there are no reorders in the sequencer set (by delegating/undelegating or triggering any action that reorders stakers and updates the sequencer set). 

Instead, the stakers actually included in the sequencer set will obtain more commissions, which is unfair as such commissions should have been distributed among all the elegible stakers, and not only the ones incorrectly included in the set.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

When updating the sequencer set max size, update the sequencer set even if the new size is bigger than the previous size. In addition, include some reorder logic so that staker rankings have the proper order so that it is ensured that the stakers included in the sequencer set are the ones with the most delegated MORPH tokens.