Quaint Mahogany Bat

High

# Users of smart wallets will lose `ERC721/1155` tokens if transaction-inclusion on L2 fails

### Summary

If a user uses a smart wallet to transfer `ERC721` or `ERC1155` tokens from `L1` to `L2` and that transfer fails (either due to ZK or gas limitations), they cannot drop the message, causing them to lose their NFTs.

Note that if a call fails due to gas limitations it can be replayed with more gas but if it either failed due to ZK limitations or all three replay attempts fail, the only way to get funds back would be to call `L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol::dropMessage`.


### Root Cause

If a `L1 -> L2` message cannot be included in L2 due to either ZK or gas limitations, the message can be dropped by calling `L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol::dropMessage`. This does some checks and then call `onDropMessage` on the initiator of the `L1 -> L2` message.
In the case of `ERC721` and `ERC1155` NFTs, that is either the `L1ERC721Gateway` or `L1ERC1155Gateway` respectively. For this issue I will look at the code of `L1ERC721Gateway` but note that this is also equally applicable to any `ERC1155` token transfers.

Looking at [`L1ERC721Gateway.sol::onDropMessage`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/98e0ec4c5bbd0b28f3d3a9e9159d1184bc45b38d/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC721Gateway.sol#L125-L148), we can see that it uses `safeTransferFrom` to refund the tokens to the user.

```solidity
function onDropMessage(bytes calldata _message) external payable virtual onlyInDropContext nonReentrant {
    // [...]
    if (bytes4(_message[0:4]) == IL2ERC721Gateway.finalizeDepositERC721.selector) {
        (address _token, , address _receiver, , uint256 _tokenId) = abi.decode(
            _message[4:],
            (address, address, address, address, uint256)
        );
        IERC721Upgradeable(_token).safeTransferFrom(address(this), _receiver, _tokenId);
        // [...]
    }
    // [...]
}
```

The problem is that `safeTransferFrom` requires the receiver to implement `onERC721Received` as the call will revert if it does not.

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

User uses Smart Wallet which are very commonly used to store and manage funds including NFTs.

### Attack Path

Issue path in this case:

* User initiates cross-chain `ERC721` transfer by calling `L1ERC721Gateway.sol::depositERC721`
* Transaction inclusion fails on L2 (either due to ZK or gas limitations)
* User tries to call `L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol::dropMessage` to get their NFT back
* The call fails in `L1ERC721Gateway.sol::onDropMessage` since the Smart Wallet does not implement `onERC721Received`
* User lost their NFT

### Impact

Permanent loss of NFTs for unsuspecting users.


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Consider using `transferFrom` instead of `safeTransferFrom` in both `L1ERC721Gateway.sol::onDropMessage` and `L1ERC1155Gateway.sol::onDropMessage`. This is totally fine since the contract/EOA that initiated the `L1 -> L2` transfer obviously can handle such tokens as that transfer would not have been possible if it did not.