Calm Khaki Sealion

High

# NFTs Will Be Locked if Bridged to Contracts Without onERC721ReceivedImplementation


## Summary:

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC721Gateway.sol#L91

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC721Gateway.sol#L107

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC721Gateway.sol#L175

https://github.com/morph-l2/morph/blob/main/contracts/contracts/l1/gateways/L1ERC721Gateway.sol#L206

The L1ERC721Gateway contract uses safeTransferFrom to handle ERC721 token transfers between Layer 1 (L1) and Layer 2 (L2). 



If a recipient contract does not implement the onERC721Received interface, it cannot receive NFTs via safeTransferFrom(). This results in NFTs being locked, as the transfer will fail without the necessary support.





## Vulnerability Details:



The vulnerability arises from the use of safeTransferFrom() in the following functions:

finalizeWithdrawERC721
finalizeBatchWithdrawERC721
_depositERC721
_batchDepositERC721


safeTransferFrom() requires the recipient contract to implement the onERC721Received() function. 



If the recipient does not support this interface, the transfer will revert, causing the NFTs to be locked in the contract, leaving them inaccessible to users.





## Impact:



If users attempt to bridge NFTs to a contract that does not support onERC721Received(), the transfer will fail. 



As a result, the NFTs will remain locked in the gateway contract, preventing users from withdrawing or transferring their NFTs. This can lead to significant financial loss and permanent inaccessibility of assets.





## Recommendations:



Add Interface Support Check: Implement an interface check using the ERC165 standard to verify if the recipient contract supports the onERC721Received() interface before calling safeTransferFrom(). This will ensure that the recipient can handle ERC721 tokens properly.




require(

    IERC165(_to).supportsInterface(type(IERC721Receiver).interfaceId),

    "Recipient does not support ERC721Receiver"

);





Use transferFrom() in Trusted Scenarios: 



In situations where the recipient contract is trusted and does not require compliance with onERC721Received(), consider using transferFrom() instead of safeTransferFrom(). 



This will avoid the risk of tokens being locked, as transferFrom() does not require the recipient to implement the onERC721Received()interface.

