Shambolic Banana Barbel

High

# Sequencer can remove stake while continuing to earn rewards and vote

### Summary

The ability to cause L1 to L2 messages to be skipped allows a Sequencer to withdraw their stake on L1, block the message from ever reaching L2, and retain the benefits (rewards, voting, etc) of being a Sequencer on L2.

### Root Cause

In `L1Staking.sol`, when a staker withdraws, the contract calls [_msgRemoveStakers()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L476-L483) to send a message to the L2 staking contract to keep them in sync.

```solidity
function _msgRemoveStakers(address[] memory remove) internal {
    MESSENGER.sendMessage(
        address(OTHER_STAKING),
        0,
        abi.encodeCall(IL2Staking.removeStakers, (remove)),
        gasLimitRemoveStakers
    );
}
```
Keep in mind that not all L1 messages make their way to L2. If, after 3 attempts, the transaction has not successfully landed in an L2 block, it will be marked as `skipped` in `Rollup.sol`. There is then no way to replay it, and the message will need to be sent anew.

One of the conditions to trigger a message to be skipped is if the gas limit for the L2 block has already been hit (this logic can be seen in the miner code in Morph's go-ethereum fork ([miner/pipeline.go#L276](https://github.com/morph-l2/go-ethereum/blob/e58ac01d16da31d9ca25a5e7e0e09bfdd352e76b/miner/pipeline.go#L276-L289))). Therefore, if an attacker first sends L1 to L2 deposits with large gas limits that fill the block, then performs a transaction, the transaction will be skipped. Furthermore, they can use up all replays in the same block to ensure the transaction cannot be replayed in the future.

(Note these high gas transactions can be sent at no cost by replaying whitelisted transactions that have already succeeded, since the replay fee is based on the original depositor, not the replayer.)

In the above situation, our L1Staking contract cannot send this message again. This is because, [once a staker is removed on L1, they cannot be removed again](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/staking/L1Staking.sol#L180).

```solidity
function removeStaker(address[] memory _stakers) external onlyOwner {
    for (uint256 i = 0; i < _stakers.length; i++) {
        require(isActiveStaker(_stakers[i]), "only active staker can be removed");
        ...
    }
}
```
They also can't be added back to become an active staker again and removed in the future, because they will be added to the `removedList`.

```solidity
function updateWhitelist(address[] calldata add, address[] calldata remove) external onlyOwner {
    for (uint256 i = 0; i < add.length; i++) {
        require(!removedList[add[i]], "in removed list");
        whitelist[add[i]] = true;
    }
    ...
}
```
Therefore, there will never be a way to remove this staker on L2.

This creates a split where the Sequencer is included on L2 but not on L1. This means they have no stake on the line and can't propose new batches, but they will (a) earn rewards on L2, (b) be included in the Sequencer Set and taking the spot of real sequencers, and (c) get votes on L2 governance.

### Internal Preconditions

None

### External Preconditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Sequencer sends three L1 messages through the bridge for 10mm gas each, which uses up the entire L2 block gas limit and causes all future deposits in that block to be skipped.
2. Sequencer calls `withdraw()` to trigger themselves to be removed on L1.
3. Sequencer replays the `withdraw()` transaction three times in the same block, which will all similarly be skipped, and will use up all the replay attempts.
4. The Sequencer will then remain in the L2 sequencer set, but will have their stake back and be removed from L1.

### Impact

Any Sequencer is able to withdraw their stake on L1 while continuing to keep the role of Sequencer on L2: earning rewards, voting on governance proposals, and taking the spot in the Sequencer Set.

Note that this could similarly happen on the `addStaker()` side, where an attacker frontruns and blocks the cross chain call so that a user's position never makes it to L2. However, this is far less harmful, as they would be able to `withdraw()` on L1 and register again.

### PoC

N/A

### Mitigation

All critical L1 to L2 messages must be ensured that they can be replayed until successful.

In this case, this requires the `L1Staking` contract to have an additional function where, if you can prove that an address isn't in the staker set, we can re-call `_msgRemoveStakers()` to sync up L2.

The inverse function should also be added, so that current L1 stakers can send a cross chain `_msgAddStaker()` to sync up the lists.
