Shambolic Banana Barbel

High

# Malicious sequencer can stake for free by manipulating transaction ordering

### Summary

The ability to skip a deposit message allows an attacker to swap the order of the `addStaker()` and `removeStakers()` L1 to L2 messages that come from the L1Staking contract. This can be used to remove the stake on L1, while remaining on the staker list on L2, entitling the attacker to rewards and governance votes without putting up any associated stake.

### Root Cause

For a new staker to join the network, the overall flow is:
- `register()` on L1Staking takes in their ETH stake
- this adds them to the staker list on L1Staking
- this also sends a deposit message to call `addStaker()` on L2Staking to keep the staker lists in sync

If a staker wants to leave the network, the flow is:
- `withdraw()` is called on L1Staking
- this adds them to the delete list on L1Staking
- this also sends a deposit message to call `removeStakers()` on L2Staking to keep the staker lists in sync
- `withdrawalLockBlocks` (7 days) later, they can remove their stake on L1

Importantly, the only way to trigger the updates to the L2 staker list is via the above flow on L1. Additionally, once a staker has been added and removed on L1, they cannot be added again, as they will be put on the `removedList`.

All this comes together to lead to the conclusion that if a staker were able to manipulate the transaction ordering so that on L1 they called `register()` and then `withdraw()`, but that on L2 they called `removeStakers()` and then `addStaker()`, the result would be that they would be removed from the L1 list (and get their stake back), but would remove permanently on the L2 list (earning rewards and voting in governance).

This is in fact possible. If we look into how cross chain messages are sent, the L1 deposit message is skipped if the L2 block gas limit has already been hit in the block ([see here](https://github.com/morph-l2/go-ethereum/blob/e58ac01d16da31d9ca25a5e7e0e09bfdd352e76b/miner/pipeline.go#L276-L289)). In this case, the transaction can be replayed later via L1CrossDomainMessenger.

This allows the malicious sequencer to fill an L2 block with high gas limit deposit transactions, delay their `addStaker()` call sufficiently for it to be processed after the `removeStakers()` call on L2, permanently adding them to the L2 staker list.

### Internal Preconditions

None

### External Preconditions

None

### Attack Path

1. A malicious user who is approved to be a staker sends 30mm gas of deposit messages through the L1CrossDomainmessenger (note that this can be done at no cost by replaying messages from whitelisted callers).
2. In the same block, he calls `register()` on L1Staking.
3. This causes the `addStaker()` cross domain message to be skipped.
4. The next block, he calls `withdraw()` on L1Staking, allowing the `removeStakers()` cross chain message to be sent to L2.
5. Afterwards, he replays the message with the original `addStaker()` call to permanently add himself to the L2 staker list.

### Impact

A malicious staker can be permanently added to the L2 staker list with no associated stake, allowing them to claim rewards and vote in governance.

### PoC

N/A

### Mitigation

Create a function on L1Staking that allows us to resend the `addStaker()` and `removeStakers()` calls any time by proving their membership on L1.
