Special Caramel Loris

Medium

# Potentially Stuck ETH in L1CrossDomainMessenger

## Summary
The [dropMessage](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L240-L292) function in [L1CrossDomainMessenger](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol) may fail to refund the `_value` to the sender if the sender's address does not implement the `onDropMessage` function or lacks a payable fallback. This can result in the transaction reverting, preventing users from retrieving their funds when a message is dropped.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the [dropMessage](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/L1CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L240-L292) function, the contract attempts to return the `_value` of the message to the sender by calling the onDropMessage function on the sender's address:
```solidity
// Set execution context
xDomainMessageSender = Constants.DROP_XDOMAIN_MESSAGE_SENDER;
IMessageDropCallback(_from).onDropMessage{value: _value}(_message);
// Clear execution context
xDomainMessageSender = Constants.DEFAULT_XDOMAIN_MESSAGE_SENDER;
```
If the sender's address does not include the `onDropMessage` function or a payable fallback, this callback function will fail. While the gateways provided by the protocol do have `onDropMessage` implemented, it is possible that a user sent a message by calling `L1CrossDomainMessenger` directly using an Externally Owned Account (EOA) or a smart wallet. In the future, a sender might use their own gateway that does not implement the `onDropMessage` function.

## Impact

- Users who sent messages directly by calling `L1CrossDomainMessenger` may be unable to receive their refund when their message is dropped if they do not implement the `onDropMessage` function or lack a payable fallback.

- This could lead to loss of funds and a negative user experience.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider allowing the `_value` to be returned to the sender even if the sender does not implement the `onDropMessage` function. Modifying the `dropMessage` function to handle cases where the sender's address does not implement `onDropMessage` or lacks a payable fallback will ensure that all users can receive their refunds when their messages are dropped, regardless of how they interacted with the `L1CrossDomainMessenger`.