Shallow Clay Bear

High

# Protocol incorrectly computes MORPH inflations, making staking participants obtain incorrect rewards

### Summary

MorphToken’s `mintInflations` function will compute the inflation to be minted for a given epoch based on the current total supply, instead of the preconfigured total supply. This will lead to MORPH inflations being improperly calculated.

### Root Cause

In [`MorphToken:138`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l2/system/MorphToken.sol#L138),  the calculation of the `increment` to be distributed as an inflation in the current epoch is obtained by applying the `rate` to the current `_totalSupply`:

```solidity
// MorphToken.sol

function mintInflations(uint256 upToEpochIndex) external onlyRecordContract {
		...
		
		uint256 increment = (_totalSupply * rate) / PRECISION; 
		_inflations[epoch] = increment;
		
		...
}
```

The `_totalSupply` is the variable that tracks the current supply of MORPH tokens. However, as per [Morph’s docs](https://docs.morphl2.io/docs/how-morph-works/decentralized-sequencers/morph-staking-system-design#rewards--slash), the `increment` should be computed as a percentage of a predefined amount of MORPH tokens that should be distributed yearly:

“*The Morph token is inflationary that increases 6% of the initial max total supply each year as the L2 Morph token staking rewards. These 6% will be distributed everyday (one day is an epoch) to all the current running sequencers.”*

The idea is to distribute a **fixed 6% of the initially predefined max total supply of MORPH** yearly. However, the current implementation won’t distribute a fixed 6% yearly, and instead will distribute a percentage of the **current total supply.** This will make the daily rewards distributed be incorrect, and a smaller amount will be distributed, which will be incremented exponentially as `_totalSupply` increases with each distribution.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. `Record.sol` oracle’s needs to trigger `recordRewardEpochs`, which will trigger the inflation distribution

### External pre-conditions

None.

### Attack Path

1. Oracle calls `Record.recordRewardEpochs()`
2. Morph’s `mintInflations()` is triggered for a certain number of epochs
3. `mintInflations()` computes `increment` utilizing the `_totalSupply` , which will increment after each `_mint()`, and which will lead to an incorrect number of tokens being distributed in each epoch.

### Impact

Sequencers and delegators suffer a loss of Morph tokens, and the global Morph token inflation is incorrectly computed, leading to an overinflation of MORPH in the long term.

### PoC

Consider the following example, where the preconditions are that on initialization, `MorphToken` has minted 1_000_000e18 tokens (so `_totalSupply` is 1_000_000e18). To make it clearer, let’s say that the rate per epoch (day) is a 1%. 

1. `recordRewardEpochs()` is called, triggering `mintInflations()` for two epochs (two days).
2. In the first epoch, the `increment` is computed as 1% of 1_000_000e18, which gives a result of 10_000e18. After the computation, 10_000e18 MORPH tokens are minted, increasing the `_totalSupply` from 1_000_000e18 to 1_010_000e18.
3. In the second epoch, the `increment` is now computed as the 1% of 1_010_000e18, which now gives a result of 10_100e18 (100e18 more MORPH tokens than in the previous epoch).

As shown, using `_totalSupply` instead of a percentage of the predefined max total supply will lead to rewards being distributed incorrectly, and making them increment as each epoch gets minted.

### Mitigation

Instead of using `_totalSupply` to compute the amount of rewards to distribute in each epoch, set a fixed value from which the yearly percentage will be computed. This will make rewards for each epochs be the same, and properly distribute MORPH inflations to delegators and sequencers. For example, a percentage of the a yearly supply, as sown in the following diff:

```diff
// MorphToken.sol

function mintInflations(uint256 upToEpochIndex) external onlyRecordContract {
       ...

-            uint256 increment = (_totalSupply * rate) / PRECISION; 
+            uint256 increment = (yearlySupply * rate) / PRECISION; 
            _inflations[epoch] = increment;

```