Bouncy Ruby Manatee

High

# Sequencer may create a fake batch that is impossible to challenge

### Summary

The data availability is a crucial part for the L2 system, especially when fraud proofs is used.

Right now, whenever observer wants to check whether the committed state, they should read the committed data, fetch the transaction inputs from the sequencer, run the state transition function with the data provided from sequencer and then compare it to the final state in the commit data onchain.

This is very error-prone approach. First of all, if data is not available how the observer (challenger) would know whether state is correct or not. Sequencer can refuse to show the data, and so a challenger should decide to challenge the batch or not. 
1. If a challenger decide not to challenge the batch because batch may be valid and data is just not publicly known, then batch may occur to have forged commitment that allows sequencer to steal funds after it finalization. 
2. If a challenger decide not to challenge the batch because batch may be invalid, then batch may occur to be valid and sequencer will win the challenge state.


### Root Cause

The data withholding is possible. Impossible to know whether to challenge such state.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Sequencer creates a batch and calls `commitBatch` function.
2. Sequencer doesn't share the transaction data with others.
3. Challenger decides whether to challenge state or not, if decide to challenge may lose deposit, decide to not forged batch may be finalized.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

1. Challenger lose the deposit.
2. Malicious batch may be finalized. 

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Sequencer should show the transaction data from the batch at the moment of `commitBatch`. It means, publishing KZG commitment within  `commitBatch` and use it later in `_verifyProof` function instead of `_kzgDataProof[0:64]`. This way, challenger may reexecute transaction following only onchain state and know whether to challenge or no. 