Bouncy Ruby Manatee

High

# Sequencer may create a fake batch that is impossible to challenge

### Summary

Please note, this issue is about being able to challenge the one batch at a time and configuration parameters. Thats why it is different from the data withholding uncertainty issue. 

That being said in my different issue, the transaction data is now available onchain. That means, if the sequencer commit valid batch (possible to prove the state), but withhold the transaction data included in the batch - then challenger doesn't know whether batch is valid or not (there is no way to check commitment is correct, without re-executing the batch locally). 

Imagine sequencer commits two bathes almost the same time. One is valid, another is invalid (state is corrupted, funds can be stolen). For both the data is not known to the public. 

The easy case If a challenger decide not to challenge the state - then after the second batch is finalized the funds are stolen.

If a challenger decide to challenge the state - then it challenge the first batch as the data is not known for both. The sequencer is the only one who knows the data and so the only one who may prove the state is valid and so defend it. Please note that `proofWindow` is equal to 2 days period while `finalizationPeriodSeconds` is equal to 1 day period! So, the sequencer is the only one who can submit validity proof and prove the state is valid. But if they wait for more than 1 day, both batches would be finalized and the forged one too.

### Root Cause

1) Data withholding possibility due to lack of onchain data publishing. 
2) Wrong config values. 


### Internal pre-conditions

1) Malicious sequencer.

### External pre-conditions

No.

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

Sequencer may steal all the funds from the protocol by creating invalid batch.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

1) Postpone each batch finalization to the challenge time.
2) Increase the `finalizationPeriodSeconds` to be bigger than `proofWindow` for a reasonable amount (2-24 hours).