Crazy Jetblack Pigeon

High

# RevertBatch function can lead to two simultaneous challenges, causing various issues

## Summary and Vulnerability Detail
First, we need to understand that the revertBatch function allows the owner to delete any batch (whether challenged or not) that has not been finalized, without causing any issues. The deletion of these batches should proceed smoothly without any problems.

Any challenger can create a challenge using challengeState, but to do so, inChallenge must be set to false.
```solidity
    function challengeState(uint64 batchIndex) external payable onlyChallenger nonReqRevert whenNotPaused {
        require(!inChallenge, "already in challenge");
        ...
    }
```

Now, let's examine an issue in revertBatch, where it can incorrectly set inChallenge to false even when an existing challenge is still active.

```solidity
    function revertBatch(bytes calldata _batchHeader, uint256 _count) external onlyOwner {
        ...
        while (_count > 0) {
            ...
            if (!challenges[_batchIndex].finished) {
                batchChallengeReward[challenges[_batchIndex].challenger] += challenges[_batchIndex].challengeDeposit;
                inChallenge = false;
            }
            ...
        }
    }
```

Let’s say we have unfinalized batches from 10 to 20, and batch 15 is currently in a challenge. If the owner deletes batches 19 and 20, inChallenge will be set to false because challenges[_batchIndex].finished will be false (as false is the default state). Consequently, this will cause inChallenge to be set to false.


Now, any challenger can challenge any unfinalized, unchallenged and non-deleted batch because inChallenge is set to false.

One important point to consider is that it does not require the owner or challenger to be malicious; this arise due to error in the revertBatch function, as I mentioned above.


## Impact
The impact is High because now we have two challenges running simultaneously, and batchChallenged will be set to the index of the last challenged batch.

Now, let’s say we have two challenges running simultaneously, and the owner tries to pause the protocol. This will return the challenge stake of the last challenged batch because we have stored the index of that batch in batchChallenged. The stake of the second last challenged batch will not be returned.

If the owner sets paused to false, but the second-to-last challenged batch is not proven and the timeout expires, it will be counted as malicious. As a result, the good sequencers will be unfairly slashed.


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
The following code can be used to mitigate this bug:


```solidity
    function revertBatch(bytes calldata _batchHeader, uint256 _count) external onlyOwner {
        ...
        while (_count > 0) {
            ...
            if (!challenges[_batchIndex].finished && challenges[_batchIndex].challengeDeposit > 0) { //@note HERE
                batchChallengeReward[challenges[_batchIndex].challenger] += challenges[_batchIndex].challengeDeposit;
                inChallenge = false;
            }
            ...
        }
    }
```
We will also check if `challenges[_batchIndex].challengeDeposit > 0` is true.




## References

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-08-morphl2/blob/main/morph/contracts/contracts/l1/rollup/Rollup.sol#L345